2.2 Style guide
=========================

We should all stick to the rules below to ensure all texts are stylistically coherent. Naturally, you'll have to break some of these from time to time - just make sure you do it consciously rather than forget about them! :P

Name
--------------------
* DON'T use the word "calculator". (If it's a converter, use the word "converter", though.)
* DO capitalize the first word.
* DON'T capitalize other words (unless they're "naturally" capitalized).

*Examples of good names:* BMI, Length converter, Acceleration, Ideal transformer

*Examples of bad names:* bmi calculator, Ideal Transformer Calculator 

Slug
--------------------
* DO use only lowercase letters.
* DO use hyphens between words.
* DON'T use underscore or spaces between words.
* DON'T use the word "calculator".
* DO try to keep the slug as short as possible.

*Examples of good slugs:* sphere, roi, sodium-correction

*Examples of bad slugs:* spherevolumecalculator, Return_on_Equity, sodium-correction-for-hyper-and-hyponatremia

Calculator box
--------------------
* DO capitalize the first word in each variable (but not more).
* DO capitalize the first word in every header.
* DO try to list the variables in a logical order; information supplied by the user should be at the top, the result - at the bottom.
* DO make sure that you're not using more units than necessary - create the *customized unit list* for units such as length or volume.
* DO spend a few seconds thinking about the default unit and the Imperial default unit - which ones will make the most sense?

Title
--------------------

* DO capitalize the title according to [these rules](http://grammar.yourdictionary.com/capitalization/rules-for-capitalization-in-titles.html).
* DO use the word "calculator" in the title (unless it's a converter, counter, etc.) 
* DO make sure the first keyword is at the beginning of the title.

*Examples of good titles:* ROI Calculator - Return on Equity, Pressure at Altitude Calculator, Length Converter

*Examples of bad titles:* Return on Equity (ROI) calculator, Pressure at altitude, Length Converter Calculator

SEO title
--------------------

* DO capitalize the SEO title according to [these rules](http://grammar.yourdictionary.com/capitalization/rules-for-capitalization-in-titles.html).
* DO use the most searched phrase at the beginning of the SEO title. 
* DO add other phrases, if they rank high in SEO.

*Examples of good SEO titles:* Circumference Calculator, Acceleration Calculator, BMI Calculator - What's Your Body Mass Index?

*Examples of bad SEO titles:* ROI, What's your BMI, acceleration calc

Category page description
--------------------
* DO use the first keyword at least once, preferably at the very beginning of the description.
* DO avoid repeating this sentence at the beginning of the lead.
* DON'T capitalize the calculator name.

Content
--------------------
Main rule: we write for Google (SEO is important), but also for the end user. Try to keep a balance between keywords and natural, easy-to-read text.
Remember that most of our users are not experts on the topics they read about; try to keep the language precise, but natural and simple. Avoid using niche terms without explanation. 

Generally, you should try to follow the guidelines listed in the SEO scoring system. Remember that it's just a rough indicator - it's more important to write a text that's readable and sounds naturally than to write a text stuffed to the brim with keywords.
Apart from the SEO rules, make sure to take into consideration the following:

* DON'T capitalize headers.
* DON'T capitalize names of calculators in the text; for example, if you link to another calculator, write something along these lines: *take a look at our acceleration calculator*. 
* DO write quite informally (a good rule of thumb is aiming for the age of the reader around 13-14 in the readability test on Grammarly). You can use the form "you", try to avoid the form "one knows that..."
* DON'T use a header before the first paragraph (the page title serves this purpose).
* DO include an example of calculations, unless the calculation process is so difficult that we don't even show the formulas.
* DO make sure you use spaces around links properly! Example of good use: *Take a look at our <portal cid="456">acceleration calculator</portal> to find out...*
* DO try to incorporate internal links naturally in the text. You don't have to always link using the phrase *XYZ calculator*, instead, you can link on single words (such as *LEDs are <portal cid="456">resistors</portal> that....* or on longer phrases.
* DO try to scatter the internal links in the text - try not to create one block of text that includes five links in one sentence.
* DO try to place the internal links in the text quite early on. The higher the link is, the higher the probability that the user will come across it (most people don't read the whole text).
* DO use keywords in the alt attribute of images or videos.

Equations
--------------------

* DO use a full stop as a decimal separator and a comma as a thousands separator. For example, the notation $67,295.23 is correct; $23 564,12 is not.
* DO use superscripts rather than the ^ symbol to indicate raising a number to a certain power. (You can copy them from [here]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode_subscripts_and_superscripts)) or use the <sub></sub> and <sup></sup> tags..

