3.1 How to use markdown: basics
=========================


We're using [markdown](https://commonmark.org/help/) with a few custom html tags (more on them later). Take a look at the link... it's a 60-seconds lesson. Also, they have a 10-minute-long tutorial. Tags that we use:

* "##" This is a level-2 header, we use them for... headers :-). Simply use two "hash" characters and a space followed by header's text.

* To create a bullet list, start your line with an asterisk followed by a space and some text, like this: "* this is an item". Each item in a new line.

* To create a numbered list, start your line with a number, then a period, then space, then text, like this: "1. this is an item{new line}1. this is a 2nd item{new line}1. this is a third item".

* 'alpha = beta + gamma' - this will create a nicely formatted block, use it for numbers and equations. It will look like this: `alpha = beta + gamma`. You can also use the <code></code> tag instead. 

* <later>Some text. 2nd sentence</later> - a section that won't be published. You can use it to insert your comments.

* <portal cid="{id_of_the_secondary_phrase}">some text</portal> - a link to another calculator (you only need to link to calculators listed as secondary phrases). ID's of articles are shown in parenthesis next to the secondary keyword. *Example*: You might also want to check out our <portal cid="153">final grade calculator</portal> to find out what score you need to get on the last test in order to achieve a certain overall grade.

